---
title: "My Universe"
date: 2023-10-09 21:41:00 +0800
categories: [个人, 写作]
tags: [写作]
author: eridanus
comments: false
description: I would describe my life as an expanding universe. My universe grows as my perception of it grows.
toc: true
---

I would describe my life as an expanding universe. My universe grows as my perception of it grows.

At first there is the spacetime that constructs my universe. My spacetime started expanding when I was born in this city. In my spacetime, there is the Gan River. My childhood home is beside the Gan River, and my grandma would tell stories she made up about a flying dragon living in the bridge or a monster living in the waters who goes out into the small island in the middle of the river at night. No matter the tales I have heard, I never see the Gan River get angry. She always flows with calmness and peacefulness, shaping my spacetime into a gentle fabric with only small dips. I tried to be like her, calm and peaceful, flowing incessantly as my heart wills me to.

Then there are the galaxies–people and things I come across in my city during the long walks to Fuqiao, the pontoon bridge that connects the old town and the new town. At the end of the pontoon bridge are many vendors, and that day I came to buy fresh fish. It was on that occasion, as I slowed down to walk between the wooden boats that people use as stalls, that I heard the cry of a fish for the first time. In a blue basin filled with shallow water were seven yellowhead catfish, swimming back and forth with their tails wagging slowly. The fish seller, in shagged clothes, knelt behind the basin, his bamboo-like fingers gripping the fish and swiftly lifting it from the water and pressing it to the cutting board beside him. The fish writhed in his hands, its mouth opening and closing, but it made no sound. He slapped the knife against the fish’s head a few times, and the fish, which had just tried to break free, was now motionless. The fish’s eyes stared straight ahead, its mouth half-open, unable to speak its last words. He picked up the scissors and paused with his hand in mid-air for half a second before quickly cutting through its skin. Just as the two blades of the scissors closed over the fish’s skin, I heard – for the first time in my life – a fish cry.

“——”

It was a scream. When the cut made its way to the fish head, the screaming stopped abruptly. I stood there, watching the fish seller knock the fish out again and again, cutting their bellies open again and again, and hearing their cries again and again. Why do the fish only cry at the last moment when the scissors have already cut through the skin and there would be no way back?

I was too naive to think that they scream out of despair and hopelessness.  Their screams, at that time, were like the supermassive black hole in the galactic center, sucking my hope into an event horizon that has no way of turning back. However, as I realized that they, at the same time, had the courage and ability to resist and fight back. They did not scream. They were crying. They taught me to never lose hope and to never stop even if there is no one there to help; they taught me that even if you are falling into a black hole and going beyond the event horizon, cry to the universe “I’m the king of the world!” They taught me optimism and dignity.

Of course, stars also exist in my universe. In my universe, one of the brightest stars is my grandma. Her family was a poor family living in the villages. Her dad used to work for rich families in the area to help them run errands; he would carry a pole with heavy loads in it, which made his legs swollen even until his death. Before the Land Reform Movement their entire family lived in a small room; after the movement, their family moved into a bigger house, which now had been demolished by the government. She is the youngest of nine children in the household, and she is the only child that went to high school. However, she was never one of those “traditional” Chinese women that has been oppressed by the traditional patriarchal views. She takes on many responsibilities; she does not show bias to any of her kids/grandkids. In her life I still see remnants of the past society: she always gets blamed by my grandpa for trivial things; she does not know her exact birthday because in the past people didn’t tell girls their birthday; during our New Year’s dinner with other family members, female family members would sit in the “less respected” seats and would care for small children while male family members would sit in the “more respected” seats and laugh and talk. Grandma is a strong woman, but she cries too easily. I learned a lot from her. I learned cooking, and when I was cooking in her kitchen I used to call myself “the chef” and she “the helper.” I learned sewing and crocheting, and I would delve into her drawer for different kinds of yarn and fabric. She taught me love, not only love for people but also love for this city and the home I live in. She taught me calmness, for she never gets angry. She taught me confidence, for I take other people’s opinions too seriously. Grandma is a star in my universe. It was not only her warmth, but her brightness. She taught me to be grateful for life no matter how hard it gets.

I also try to blend myself with spacetime, to give back to the spacetime that makes up my universe. When I was young I learned how to make mugwort cakes–a traditional pastry made of mugwort that can be either salty or sweet– with my grandma. The mugwort must first be finely chopped, mixed with flour, kneaded into a green dough, and then wrapped with the fillings like dumplings. After a few years, my grandma stopped making mugwort cakes–she could barely remember how to make common dishes. The last time I made mugwort cakes with my family was at my grandma’s hometown in the suburbs. When the other kids and I got too hungry that we couldn’t wait for all the mugwort cakes to be finished, we would directly pull away a piece of dough, put it in the steamer for a few minutes until cooked through, dip it in white sugar, and swallow it in one gulp. Later in high school, I was working as a pastry intern at a hotel restaurant where they make all kinds of traditional Gannan Hakka food, mugwort rice cake “Aimiguo,” fish wrapped with sweet potato “Shubaoyu,” and yellow rice cakes “Huangyuanmiguo.” As I prepped the yellow and green dough for the pastries, I imagined how my grandma felt when she was making them for the family. I let the warmth and love from my grandma flow into the pastries that I was making. Kneading them carefully and thoroughly, putting a large spoon of pork, dried tofu, and pickles filling on the dough, and finally pressing each piece of dough into a finely half-moon shape, I felt connected to not only the food but also my grandma and the people that came before her–the people that form our traditional culture.

There are also the seemingly trivial objects in my universe, the ones that exist silently without you noticing them: dark matter, dark energy, and the laws of my universe. The daily events are the dark matter in my universe, sewing together the fabric of spacetime. They might be a warm hello from the old lady who sells tofu pudding, a word of praise and encouragement for my outfit from a little girl, or a good price I saw at the food market. I learned to appreciate my dark matter and treasure these happy moments. The dark energy expands my universe. They are my passion and love for different things. Energy springs out from the clothes that I crochet and sew for my stuffed animals and dolls, from the haikus I read about the four seasons, and from the drawings of objects right before my eyes on my scratch paper. The energy keeps getting more and more, making my universe an accelerating universe. I am not the center of the universe. I am the universe itself, its contents revolving under the laws of my universe, forming what I call “me.”

Note: I did not check grammar, so there will be some grammar mistakes.
