---
title: "I’m back. Maybe."
date: 2023-04-18 15:17:00 +0800
categories: [个人, 生活]
tags: [生活]
author: eridanus
comments: false
description: Life has been exhausting, and life is still exhausting even now.
toc: true
---

It’s been half a year since I last posted. Life has been exhausting, and life is still exhausting even now. Becoming an adult was exhausting, and the day I turned eighteen was even more exhausting. I’m gradually trying to gather myself back together. Maybe read more or draw more. Or maybe just sleep more.

This summer I’m finally going back to Japan for the second time for a three-week solo trip. Starting from Osaka, I’ll make my way up north to Tottori to visit the Conan Town that I have been craving to go to since eighth grade. Then, I’ll head back to Kyoto, and after staying in Kyoto for five days, I’ll finally go to Tokyo to stay for about 11 days while visiting the nearby areas around Tokyo.

I guess this is the “real” eighteenth birthday gift; although things went a bit wrong. I was not supposed to travel alone nor was I supposed to stay in Japan for three weeks.

We’ll just have to wait to see what happens when time finally brings us to that period of time.

One thing I need to add: I finally got my GitHub blog ready this afternoon (4/18/2024 16:50ish), so I’ll see how this new blog is performing and maybe move all of my blogs over there. The reason why I want to move is because with my Japan solo trip coming up, I’m thinking about writing travel blogs and putting a bunch of photos in my blog. I can’t afford an upgrade on WordPress so I’m thinking about using GitHub…
