---
title: "The Stars and the Sky"
date: 2023-10-09 21:45:00 +0800
categories: [个人, 写作]
tags: [写作]
author: eridanus
comments: false
description: The first time I saw with my own naked eyes a night sky filled with stars was when I was 12 and a half years old attending an astronomy course at Center for Talented Youth program at UC Santa Cruz.
toc: true
---

The first time I saw with my own naked eyes a night sky filled with stars was when I was 12 and a half years old attending an astronomy course at Center for Talented Youth program at UC Santa Cruz. Before that, I only got to see starry skies from NASA pictures. Back in my hometown, there are only the moon and three stars–or planets–that are visible in the night sky, so I never believed that these night skies filled with stars existed.

I still remember that night vividly and very often when I close my eyes my memories still take me back to the marvelous night skies of Santa Cruz. After our night classes ended at around nine o’clock, we would climb down the hills and wait at Merrill College. During the few minutes of waiting, we would look up at the night sky–it became a habit by then as an astronomy class. On some nights we would see a bright Jupiter that seems to be hanging from the branches of the large redwood tree. It was on one of these nights, when we got to use a telescope to observe the night sky, I finally got the chance to look at the night sky carefully–much more carefully than the indifferent glance before.

Through the lenses of the telescope, I saw the four Galilean moons of Jupiter and the tilted ring of Saturn. It provided minute details that one cannot obtain with naked eyes. However, observing through a telescope also constrains vision: while one focuses on a small portion in the sky, one also misses out the fun and beauty of the entire sky. I stepped away from the telescope, and instead of looking through the optical glasses, I observed with my naked eyes. And there they were: I noticed one star shining–then there were two and three and four. When I blinked and looked at the sky again, it became a starry night sky: a sky filled with stars. I tried observing the sky as a whole piece of art instead of cutting it into smaller pieces, and it was then I truly felt the beauty of the sky. The attraction of the stars to me was like the strong gravitational fields around a black hole, pulling me in and not allowing me to escape.

I learned how to see things differently: instead of looking at merely a small part of things, I tried to look at them together as a whole so that I can experience the beauty of the entirety. Every Qingming Festival our family goes back to my grandparents’ homes in the rural areas in Xingguo. We arrive in the morning and directly start climbing the hills to pay tribute to our ancestors–my great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents. However, in order to get to the grave of my grandfather, we had to walk a long way from the house–not merely climbing a small hill but going deep into the mountains and walking through grassland where there are no paths. We started from the brick house and walked past a field growing rice in the water. We then arrived at the entrance of the mountain, where before us are packed with rich green leaves and behind us are left with yellow brown fields of dirt and dust. As we climbed up into the endless colors of green, I began to feel tired. It was as if we were driving inside a long, dark tunnel, or falling into a black hole–it felt as if we were never able to reach the destination. I began to wonder why my grandpa had decided to hide his grave in the deep mountains. I assumed it was not all about the feng shui of the place. Did he want to let himself rest in a place where he will not be disturbed for there are no other graves around him? Or did he want to challenge us–to test our love and loyalty to him to make us walk such long paths to pay tribute to him?

As I walked up the narrow mud-made stairs and pushed aside the grass and plants in the path with a wooden stick I picked up from the ground, we finally arrived at my grandpa’s grave. It was a small grave made of stone slabs. Moss and dirt covered the stone as it has been one year since we arrived to clean the grave. The dark brown and reddish remnants of the candles we burnt last year still remained in the front of the stone tablet that carved his name, my grandma’s name, and the names of my mother’s side of the family. I turned around and looked at the surroundings of the grave as a whole, and it was then I realized why he had chosen this site as his final resting place. From there one can see everything: the villages at the bottom of the mountain and the fields that were used to grow crops and vegetables, the top of the mountain where it almost seems as if it were touching the sky. The journey to the grave was not easy, but it was like a treasure hunt. The infiniteness and the limitlessness I felt when I was exploring the mountain while following a general path to arrive at the grave brought me no other than the feeling that I was alive and existent in the world. The connection between vitality and death when I stood before the grave and the boundlessness when I turned around and appreciated the whole world around the grave in its entirety brought me happiness.

When we arrived back home that evening the sky was black but with no stars visible. I used to hate these night skies as they were ugly and boring–no stars were willing to decorate the canvas of the dark night sky. However, I looked up at the night sky again with my naked eyes, trying not to focus only on small spots that are absent of stars but to feel the sky as a whole. Suddenly, there was a feeling as if you were falling from a high place down into earth, or as if you were riding a roller coaster. A click. It was the same feeling I felt when I saw a sky filled with stars back in Santa Cruz. The sky itself, when I opened my eyes and allowed them to consume every corner of it, brought boundlessness and hope. It was not the individual stars that brought the sky beauty, but rather it was the stars, the planets, the black holes, and spacetime itself that brought sublime beauty to the universe as an entity. To me, I started learning to observe things and events as a whole–as if one is floating in the air and looking down at the world to catch every small movement.

Note: This is related to my Pioneer research paper, where I try to find some philosophical implications for black holes and gravitational waves. Here is an example of this. In the book The Order of Time, where it talks about relativity and the concept of time, I read something really interesting: “The single quantity “time” melts into a spiderweb of times. We do not describe how the world evolves in time: we describe how things evolve in local time, and how local times evolve relative to each other. The world is not like a platoon advancing at the pace of a single commander. It’s a network of events affecting each other. […] Time has lost its first aspect or layer: its unity. It has a different rhythm in every different place and passes here differently from there.” In a scientific way, time is relative and different to each of us. In a philosophical way, we should live “in our own times”, try not to compare ourselves to others, and do the best we can in our own ways. The thing that I usually wonder about is the concept of time and the universe: what is time and what is the “substance” (or the “background”) of the universe. For example, is time a straight line or is time a circle?

Note: I did not check grammar, so there will be some grammar mistakes.
